content/windows/step_four.md, before:

+++
title = "Build your own image"
description = "Getting started with Docker"
keywords = ["beginner, getting started, Docker"]
[menu.windows]
identifier = "windows_image"
weight = 4
+++

# Build your own image

The `whalesay` image could be improved. It would be nice if you didn't have to
think of something to say. And you type a lot to get `whalesay` to talk.

    docker run moxiegirl/whalesay cowsay boo-boo

In this next section, you will improve the `whalesay` image by building a new version that "talks on its own" and requires fewer words to run.

## Step 1: Open a Boot2Docker terminal 

If you don't already have a terminal open, open one now:

1. From the **Desktop** and locate the Boot2Docker icon.

    ![Desktop](/windows/images/icon-set.png)
    
2. Click the icon to launch a Boot2Docker terminal.

   Just leave the terminal open on your desktop, you'll be using it in a moment.


## Step 2. Write a Dockerfile

In this step, you use the Mac Notepad program to write a short Dockerfile.  A
Dockerfile describes the software that is "baked" into an image. It isn't just
ingredients tho, it can tell the software what environment to use or what
commands to run. Your recipe is going to be very short.

1. Place your cursor at the prompt in the Boot2Docker terminal.

2. Change to your Desktop.

        $ cd Desktop
        
3. From the command line, a folder called `testdocker` on your Desktop.

        $ mkdir testdocker
        
4. Change into the `tesetdocker` folder.

        $ cd testdocker

3. Create a Dockerfile in the current directory by typing `touch Dockerfile` and pressing RETURN.

    Make sure you use a capital `D` in the file name. Linux file names are case sensitive. 

        $ touch Dockerfile
        
    The command appears to do nothing but it actually creates the Dockerfile in the current directory. Just type `ls Dockerfile` to see it.
    
        $ ls Dockerfile
        Dockerfile
    
3. Now, type the `notepad Dockerfile&` to open the file in Window's Notepad program (don't forget the `&` ampersand).
    
    ![ampersand](/windows/images/ampersand.png)
    
    Your system opens the Notepad program with the empty Dockerfile.
    
    ![Edit Dockerfile](/windows/images/note-pad1.png)

3. Type `FROM moxiegirl/whalesay:latest` line into the open file.

    Now, it should look like this.

    ![Line one](/windows/images/note-pad2.png)
    
	  The `FROM` keyword tells Docker which image your image is based on. You
    are basing your new work on the existing `whalesay` image. 
		
4. Now, add the `fortunes` program to the image.

	 ![Line two](/windows/images/note-pad3.png)
	 
	 The `fortunes` program has a command that prints out wise sayings for our
	 whale to say. So, the first step is to install it. This line adds the
	 `fortune` program using the `apt-get` program. If these sound all very
	 cryptic to you, don't worry. As long as you type the words correctly, they
	 will work for you!
	 
5. Once the image has the software it needs, you instruct the software to run
when the image is loaded.

	![Line two](/windows/images/note-pad4.png)

 	This line tells the `fortune` program to send its nifty quotes to the `cowsay` program.
		
6. Save your work and the Dockerfile by choosing **File > Save** from the Notepad menu.

	At this point, you have all your software ingredients and behaviors described
	in a Dockerfile. You are ready to build a new image.

7. Place your cursor back in your Boot2Docker terminal.


8. Make sure the Dockerfile is in the current directory by typing `cat Dockerfile`

        $ cat Dockerfile
        FROM moxiegirl/whalesay:latest

        RUN apt-get -y update && apt-get install -y fortunes

        CMD /usr/games/fortune -a | cowsay

9. Now, build your new image by typing  `docker build -t docker-whale .` and pressing RETURN.

    Don't forget the . period it is part of the command.

        $ docker build -t docker-whale .
        Sending build context to Docker daemon 158.8 MB
        ...snip...
        Removing intermediate container a8e6faa88df3
        Successfully built 7d9495d03763
        
	  The command takes several seconds to run and reports its outcome. Before
    you do anything with the new image, take a minute to learn about the
    Dockerfile build process.

## Step 3: Learn about the build process

The `docker build -t docker-whale .` command takes the `Dockerfile` in the
current directory, and builds an image called `docker-whale` on your local
machine. The command takes about a minute and its output looks really long and
complex. In this section, you learn what each message means.

First Docker checks to make sure it has the everything it needs to build. 
  
    Sending build context to Docker daemon 158.8 MB

Then, Docker loads with the `whalesay` image.	It already has this image
locally as your might recall from the last page. So, Docker doesn't need to
download it.

    Step 0 : FROM moxiegirl/whalesay:latest
     ---> fb434121fc77

Docker moves onto the next step which is to update the `apt-get` package
manager. This takes a lot of lines, no need to list them all again here.

    Step 1 : RUN apt-get -y update && apt-get install -y fortunes
     ---> Running in 27d224dfa5b2
    Ign http://archive.ubuntu.com trusty InRelease
    Ign http://archive.ubuntu.com trusty-updates InRelease
    Ign http://archive.ubuntu.com trusty-security InRelease
    Hit http://archive.ubuntu.com trusty Release.gpg
    ....snip...
    Get:15 http://archive.ubuntu.com trusty-security/restricted amd64 Packages [14.8 kB]
    Get:16 http://archive.ubuntu.com trusty-security/universe amd64 Packages [134 kB]
    Reading package lists...
    ---> eb06e47a01d2
  
Then, Docker installs the new `fortunes` software.
  
    Removing intermediate container e2a84b5f390f
    Step 2 : RUN apt-get install -y fortunes
     ---> Running in 23aa52c1897c
    Reading package lists...
    Building dependency tree...
    Reading state information...
    The following extra packages will be installed:
      fortune-mod fortunes-min librecode0
    Suggested packages:
      x11-utils bsdmainutils
    The following NEW packages will be installed:
      fortune-mod fortunes fortunes-min librecode0
    0 upgraded, 4 newly installed, 0 to remove and 3 not upgraded.
    Need to get 1961 kB of archives.
    After this operation, 4817 kB of additional disk space will be used.
    Get:1 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ trusty/main librecode0 amd64 3.6-21 [771 kB]
    ...snip......
    Setting up fortunes (1:1.99.1-7) ...
    Processing triggers for libc-bin (2.19-0ubuntu6.6) ...
     ---> c81071adeeb5
    Removing intermediate container 23aa52c1897c
  
Finally, Docker finishes the build and reports its outcome.		

    Step 3 : CMD /usr/games/fortune -a | cowsay
     ---> Running in a8e6faa88df3
     ---> 7d9495d03763
    Removing intermediate container a8e6faa88df3
    Successfully built 7d9495d03763


## Step 4: Run your new docker-whale

In this step, you verify the new images is on your computer and then you run your new image.

1. If it isn't already there, place your cursor at the prompt in the Boot2Docker terminal window.

2. Type `docker images` and press RETURN.

    This command, you might remember, lists the images you have locally.

        $ docker images
        REPOSITORY           TAG          IMAGE ID          CREATED             VIRTUAL SIZE
        docker-whale         latest       7d9495d03763      4 minutes ago       273.7 MB
        moxiegirl/whalesay   latest       fb434121fc77      4 hours ago         247 MB
        hello-world          latest       91c95931e552      5 weeks ago         910 B

3. Run your new image by typing `docker run docker-whale` and pressing RETURN.

		$ docker run docker-whale
		 _________________________________________ 
		/ "He was a modest, good-humored boy. It  \
		\ was Oxford that made him insufferable." /
		 ----------------------------------------- 
				\
				 \
					\     
												##        .            
									## ## ##       ==            
							 ## ## ## ##      ===            
					 /""""""""""""""""___/ ===        
			~~~ {~~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~ ~ /  ===- ~~~   
					 \______ o          __/            
						\    \        __/             
							\____\______/   

	As you can see, you've made the whale a lot smarter. It finds its own
	things to say and the command line is a lot shorter!  You may also notice
	that Docker didn't have to download anything.  That is because the image was
	built locally and is already available.
	
## Where to go next

On this page, you learned to build an image by writing your own Dockerfile.
You ran your image in a container. You also just used Linux from your Mac yet
again. In the next section, you take the first step in sharing your image by
[creating a Docker Hub account](/windows/step_five).

Commit message:

Entering comments from Windows user Carol
Signed-off-by: Mary Anthony <mary@docker.com>

content/windows/step_four.md, after:

+++
title = "Build your own image"
description = "Getting started with Docker"
keywords = ["beginner, getting started, Docker"]
[menu.windows]
identifier = "windows_image"
weight = 4
+++

# Build your own image

The `whalesay` image could be improved. It would be nice if you didn't have to
think of something to say. And you type a lot to get `whalesay` to talk.

    docker run moxiegirl/whalesay cowsay boo-boo

In this next section, you will improve the `whalesay` image by building a new version that "talks on its own" and requires fewer words to run.

## Step 1: Open a Boot2Docker terminal 

If you don't already have a terminal open, open one now:

1. From the **Desktop** and locate the Boot2Docker icon.

    ![Desktop](/windows/images/icon-set.png)
    
2. Click the icon to launch a Boot2Docker terminal.

   Just leave the terminal open on your desktop, you'll be using it in a moment.


## Step 2. Write a Dockerfile

In this step, you use the Windows Notepad applicatin to write a short
Dockerfile. A Dockerfile describes the software elements that make up an
image. It isn't just elements though, a Dockerfile can describe what environment
to use or what commands to run in the container. Your Dockerfile is going to be very short.

1. Place your cursor at the prompt in the Boot2Docker terminal.

2. Change to your Desktop.

        $ cd Desktop
        
3. From the command line, a folder called `testdocker` on your Desktop.

        $ mkdir testdocker
        
4. Change into the `tesetdocker` folder.

        $ cd testdocker

5. Create a Dockerfile in the current directory by typing `touch Dockerfile` and pressing RETURN.

    Make sure you use a capital `D` in the file name. Linux file names are case sensitive. 

        $ touch Dockerfile
        
    The command appears to do nothing but it actually creates the Dockerfile in the current directory. Just type `ls Dockerfile` to see it.
    
        $ ls Dockerfile
        Dockerfile
    
6. Now, type the `notepad Dockerfile&` to open the file in Window's Notepad  (don't forget the `&` ampersand).
    
    ![ampersand](/windows/images/ampersand.png)
    
    Your system opens the Notepad program with the empty Dockerfile.
    
    ![Edit Dockerfile](/windows/images/note-pad1.png)

7. Type `FROM moxiegirl/whalesay:latest` line into the open file.

    Now, it should look like this.

    ![Line one](/windows/images/note-pad2.png)
    
	  The `FROM` keyword tells Docker which image your image is based on. You
    are basing your new work on the existing `whalesay` image. 
		
8. Now, add the `fortunes` program to the image.

	 ![Line two](/windows/images/note-pad3.png)
	 
	 The `fortunes` program has a command that prints out wise sayings for our
	 whale to say. So, the first step is to install it. This line adds the
	 `fortune` program using the `apt-get` program. If these sound all very
	 cryptic to you, don't worry. As long as you type the words correctly, they
	 will work for you!
	 
9. Once the image has the software it needs, you instruct the software to run
when the image is loaded.

	![Line two](/windows/images/note-pad4.png)

 	This line tells the `fortune` program to send its nifty quotes to the `cowsay` program.
		
10. Save your work and the Dockerfile by choosing **File > Save** from the Notepad menu.

	At this point, you have all your software ingredients and behaviors described
	in a Dockerfile. You are ready to build a new image.

11. Place your cursor back in your Boot2Docker terminal.


12. Make sure the Dockerfile is in the current directory by typing `cat Dockerfile`

        $ cat Dockerfile
        FROM moxiegirl/whalesay:latest

        RUN apt-get -y update && apt-get install -y fortunes

        CMD /usr/games/fortune -a | cowsay

13. Now, build your new image by typing  `docker build -t docker-whale .` and press RETURN.

    Don't forget the . period it is part of the command.

        $ docker build -t docker-whale .
        Sending build context to Docker daemon 158.8 MB
        ...snip...
        Removing intermediate container a8e6faa88df3
        Successfully built 7d9495d03763
        
	  The command takes several seconds to run and reports its outcome. Before
    you do anything with the new image, take a minute to learn about the
    Dockerfile build process.

## Step 3: Learn about the build process

The `docker build -t docker-whale .` command takes the `Dockerfile` in the
current directory, and builds an image called `docker-whale` on your local
machine. The command takes about a minute and its output looks really long and
complex. In this section, you learn what each message means.

First Docker checks to make sure it has the everything it needs to build. 
  
    Sending build context to Docker daemon 158.8 MB

Then, Docker loads with the `whalesay` image.	It already has this image
locally as your might recall from the last page. So, Docker doesn't need to
download it.

    Step 0 : FROM moxiegirl/whalesay:latest
     ---> fb434121fc77

Docker moves to the next step which is to update the `apt-get` package
manager. This takes a lot of lines, no need to list them all again here.

    Step 1 : RUN apt-get -y update && apt-get install -y fortunes
     ---> Running in 27d224dfa5b2
    Ign http://archive.ubuntu.com trusty InRelease
    Ign http://archive.ubuntu.com trusty-updates InRelease
    Ign http://archive.ubuntu.com trusty-security InRelease
    Hit http://archive.ubuntu.com trusty Release.gpg
    ....snip...
    Get:15 http://archive.ubuntu.com trusty-security/restricted amd64 Packages [14.8 kB]
    Get:16 http://archive.ubuntu.com trusty-security/universe amd64 Packages [134 kB]
    Reading package lists...
    ---> eb06e47a01d2
  
Then, Docker installs the new `fortunes` software.
  
    Removing intermediate container e2a84b5f390f
    Step 2 : RUN apt-get install -y fortunes
     ---> Running in 23aa52c1897c
    Reading package lists...
    Building dependency tree...
    Reading state information...
    The following extra packages will be installed:
      fortune-mod fortunes-min librecode0
    Suggested packages:
      x11-utils bsdmainutils
    The following NEW packages will be installed:
      fortune-mod fortunes fortunes-min librecode0
    0 upgraded, 4 newly installed, 0 to remove and 3 not upgraded.
    Need to get 1961 kB of archives.
    After this operation, 4817 kB of additional disk space will be used.
    Get:1 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ trusty/main librecode0 amd64 3.6-21 [771 kB]
    ...snip......
    Setting up fortunes (1:1.99.1-7) ...
    Processing triggers for libc-bin (2.19-0ubuntu6.6) ...
     ---> c81071adeeb5
    Removing intermediate container 23aa52c1897c
  
Finally, Docker finishes the build and reports its outcome.		

    Step 3 : CMD /usr/games/fortune -a | cowsay
     ---> Running in a8e6faa88df3
     ---> 7d9495d03763
    Removing intermediate container a8e6faa88df3
    Successfully built 7d9495d03763


## Step 4: Run your new docker-whale

In this step, you verify the new images is on your computer and then you run your new image.

1. If it isn't already there, place your cursor at the prompt in the Boot2Docker terminal window.

2. Type `docker images` and press RETURN.

    This command, you might remember, lists the images you have locally.

        $ docker images
        REPOSITORY           TAG          IMAGE ID          CREATED             VIRTUAL SIZE
        docker-whale         latest       7d9495d03763      4 minutes ago       273.7 MB
        moxiegirl/whalesay   latest       fb434121fc77      4 hours ago         247 MB
        hello-world          latest       91c95931e552      5 weeks ago         910 B

3. Run your new image by typing `docker run docker-whale` and pressing RETURN.

		$ docker run docker-whale
		 _________________________________________ 
		/ "He was a modest, good-humored boy. It  \
		\ was Oxford that made him insufferable." /
		 ----------------------------------------- 
				\
				 \
					\     
												##        .            
									## ## ##       ==            
							 ## ## ## ##      ===            
					 /""""""""""""""""___/ ===        
			~~~ {~~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~ ~ /  ===- ~~~   
					 \______ o          __/            
						\    \        __/             
							\____\______/   

	As you can see, you've made the whale a lot smarter. It finds its own
	things to say and the command line is a lot shorter!  You may also notice
	that Docker didn't have to download anything.  That is because the image was
	built locally and is already available.
	
## Where to go next

On this page, you learned to build an image by writing your own Dockerfile.
You ran your image in a container. You also just used Linux from your Mac yet
again. In the next section, you take the first step in sharing your image by
[creating a Docker Hub account](/windows/step_five).
